# Next.js 13 - Chat Messenger

Chat Messenger application, uses TypeScript (StandardJS), Tailwind, Prisma (MongoDB), the application only has basic functionalities:

- Authentication using NextAuth (4.24), used providers for Credentials, Google and Github.
- Send and receive text and image messages in real time using Pusherjs (5.2).
- Real-time verification of user status (Online - Offline).
- List of users.
- Create and delete conversations.
- Create and delete groups.
- Edit user profile (name and photo).
- Photos are stored in Cloudinary (next-cloudinary v5.6).

## Configure environment variables

Rename the file **.env.template** to **.env**

- MongoDB URL Local:

```
DATABASE_URL="mongodb+srv://user:password@domain.com/name_bd"
```

- NextAuth Secret: Any phrase of your choice

```
NEXTAUTH_SECRET="SECRET_STRING"
```

- Github ID and SECRET: Go to https://github.com/settings/developers and register an OAuth application. Then copy the ID and SECRET generated by Github.

```
GITHUB_ID=
GITHUB_SECRET=
```

- Google CLIENT_ID and CLIENT_SECRET: Go to https://console.cloud.google.com, create a project, then go to APIs and services, then go to 'OAuth consent screen' and select External, then click create, fill the basic information like Name, support email, developer contact information and then click 'Save and Continue'. For the next steps, leave the default information and also click 'Save and Continue'. After finishing the steps, go to Credentials and click on Create Credentials (OAuth Client ID), select Web Application, add name and Authorized redirect URL (http://localhost:3000/api/auth/callback/google) and then on the Create button, that will show us a pop-up window with the necessary information.

```
GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=
GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=
```

- Cloudinary Name: Go to https://cloudinary.com and create a free account, then go to the left side in the Dashboard option and the name assigned by the cloudinay platform will appear there.

```
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME=""
```

- Pusher Keys: Go to https://pusher.com and create a free account, go to Channels, create an application, then go to App Keys and copy the values of key, app_id and secret and add them to the following three variables in the same order.

```
NEXT_PUBLIC_PUSHER_APP_KEY=
PUSHER_APP_ID=
PUSHER_SECRET=
```

- Rebuild the node modules and build Next

```
npm install
npm run dev
```
